
                    It looks like you're using an ad blocker. 
                    To enjoy our content, please include The Japan Times on your ad-blocker's list of approved sites.
                     
                    Thank you for supporting our journalism.
                     9 M/SUNNY 
					Japan marks 12 years since quake and tsunami triggered Fukushima crisis				 
			Recovery from the magnitude-9.0 earthquake and resultant tsunami has progressed, but some 31,000 people remain displaced as of November 2022.

				5 hours ago			
 
					Survey finds 60% of South Koreans oppose Japan wartime labor dispute resolution				 
			The Gallup Korea survey found 59% of respondents are opposed to the plan as they believe it provides no apology or reparations from Japan, while 35% said it would help ...

				33 mins ago			
 
					Government to scale back COVID support with disease downgrade on May 8				 
			The move means much of the state subsidies for screening and treatments will be scaled back and free COVID testing and outpatient care will end.


 
					90% in Japan feel discrimination against disabled exists, survey finds				 
			The survey conducted last year found 88.5% responded that discrimination against such people either "exists" or "exists to a certain extent," the results of a Cabinet Office poll found.

				10 mins ago			
 
													Abandoned after 3/11, Fukushima starts attracting new residents												 People are moving to areas near the crippled nuclear power plant in the prefecture lured by the promise of subsidies, discount housing and work opportunities. But will these migrants stay? 
											How the 3/11 disasters set in motion an evolution of the U.S.-Japan alliance										 
											Twelve years after 3/11, dispute grows over Fukushima’s radioactive soil										 
											BOJ maintains monetary easing at Kuroda's last policy board meeting										 
											North Korea's Kim says military carried out 'simulated drills for real war'										 
											Japan reports first death directly linked to COVID-19 vaccine										 
											Yokozuna promotion appears within Takakeisho's grasp at Spring Basho										 The Chinese century is already over China’s gap between its declining demographic and economic strength and expanding strategic ambitions now constitutes a major geopolitical risk.  Pandemic murder wave has crested. Here’s the postmortem. Homicides were down in the U.S. in 2022 and continue to fall in the biggest cities. The cause of the spike during COVID-19 is still being determined. Preparing the SDF for tomorrow’s fight and today’s needs How does the SDF balance between posturing for the combat operations of tomorrow and the disaster relief missions of today? Tokyo is very much invested in Taiwan's future Japan's strategic agenda with Taiwan will continue to entail more frequent engagement and fostering new avenues of cooperation. After Ukraine, does Putin have his eyes on another country? Moldova is leaning West. That’s why the Kremlin is taking aim at the former Soviet republic. DEEP DIVE Moving to Fukushima? You’ll have to kick out the boars first 
					Harima Science Garden City, model for research				 
 
					How the 3/11 disasters set in motion an evolution of the U.S.-Japan alliance				 
			The March 11, 2011, tragedy prompted a broad and important shift for the Self-Defense Forces and the country’s military alliance with the United States.		 Japan to lift evacuation order for part of another Fukushima town Twelve years after 3/11, dispute grows over Fukushima’s radioactive soil From blush to crayons, cosmetics recycling on rise in Japan Japan reports first death directly linked to COVID-19 vaccine Victims remembered 78 years on from devastating U.S. air raid on Tokyo Diamond Princess returns to Yokohama, three years after mass COVID outbreak 
					Biden administration set to further tighten chipmaking exports to China				 
			The rules may as much as double the number of machines that require special licenses for export, creating fresh hurdles for makers of the equipment.		 Silicon Valley Bank is largest failure since financial crisis, leaving billions stranded Mitsubishi Motors plays catchup with plans for all-electric fleet by 2035 BOJ maintains monetary easing at Kuroda's last policy board meeting Japan Airlines scraps promo discounted fares after demand crashes website Japan says no decision yet on chip export restrictions Japan's consumption rebounds by most since March, despite inflation 
					Iran and Saudi Arabia to restore ties in major step for Middle East				 
			In a statement, Shiite-majority Iran and mainly Sunni Muslim Saudi Arabia said they would reopen embassies and missions within two months.		 Pacific's Micronesia in talks to switch ties from Beijing to Taiwan North Korea's Kim says military carried out 'simulated drills for real war' Only one Chinese official got a ‘no’ vote at Xi’s coronation Former Malaysian PM Muhyiddin Yassin charged with corruption Xi starts new term in China, with a focus on economy and U.S. rivalry Biden's $6.8 trillion budget challenges Republicans and raises taxes on rich 
									Japan must do more to build stronger ties with South Korea								 Seoul has decided that the future is more important than the past — and offered Japan a settlement on its wartime labor dispute. 
									Japan tourism woes an opportunity for needed change								 While the tourism industry modernizes, it’s vital that Japan not lose the special touch that has made this country a unique destination. 
										The Chinese century is already over									 China’s gap between its declining demographic and economic strength and expanding strategic ambitions now constitutes a major geopolitical risk.  
										Pandemic murder wave has crested. Here’s the postmortem.									 Homicides were down in the U.S. in 2022 and continue to fall in the biggest cities. The cause of the spike during COVID-19 is still being determined. 
					Masataka Yoshida leads charge as Samurai Japan routs South Korea in World Baseball Classic				 
			Japan routed its rival to improve to 2-0 in the WBC.		 Australia looks to keeping momentum going after upsetting South Korea Shohei Ohtani captivates crowd, teammates and opponents in WBC debut Yokozuna promotion appears within Takakeisho's grasp at Spring Basho Andy Murray and Emma Raducanu battle to victory at Indian Wells Jean Faut, star pitcher in women’s baseball league, dies at 98 Chad Ramey makes good first impression grabbing Players Championship lead 
					Artizon Museum's Dumb Type installations will leave you cold				 
			Recent works by Dumb Type have been recreated in and adapted for the Tokyo museum as “2022: remap.” But even for this high-concept collective, some of the works are especially hard to grasp.		 Japan’s first 'Drag Race' contestant hits the stage Elderly survivors fight to preserve memory of Tokyo firebombing in 'Paper City' ‘Downfall’: Tortured soul makes for a total bore ‘December’: Powerful courtroom drama serves up shades of gray 
					Subzero climbing: A frigid yet 'ephemeral' adrenaline rush				 
			Mount Yatsugatake is one of Japan's most popular ice climbing destinations, but it might not be around for many more winters.		 March’s biggest fashion drops are mired in nostalgia Things come full circle — like a bagel — for 'Everything Everywhere' designer Shirley Kurata The Oscars are upon us. What films are you rooting for? Living doll: Licca-chan casts a spell on Japan's adults 
					Round 2 at your teaching job: New confidence, new opportunities				 
			We're coming up on a new school year. Aim to improve your language skills and travel the country more with your newfound confidence.		 With the arrival of spring, Komeko is ready to bloom 'Dear, the war has started': My journey from Ukraine to Japan Not so easy to fall in love: The app effect on Japan’s international dating scene Through good times and bad, the community you create will be your lifeline View more Multimedia articles Sponsored contents planned and edited by JT Media Enterprise Division. 
広告出稿に関するおといあわせはこちらまで
 
Read more
 
By Synergy Media Specialists
 
THE JAPAN TIMES DIGITAL ARCHIVES
 RELATED SITES DISASTER INFORMATION Japan Spelling Bee The Japan Times Jobs Sustainable Japan by The Japan Times JT GROUP SITES The Japan Times Alpha Book Club Read more Read more The Japan Times LTD. All rights reserved. 