
We have 8 hour tour almost everyday which is famous in Rebun Island. You will have a wonderful time walking with many people. In summer, you can explore Todo Island, nigrum jam making workshop in autumn is also enjoyable. Our YH is facing west and you might see beautiful sunset. At night, you can enjoy with other guests singing and dancing. 
In the middle of 1000m elevation Asahidake, our YH is located. You can enjoy full of alpine plants and hike base in spring and summer. Autumn leaves and skiing with powder snow or cross country skiing in virgin forest in winter is also enjoyable.Our onsen is unheated and no extra water added. 
To take a walk in Biei, BIbaushi station is convenient to get off. Around the station is famous for young people with the view of hill and fashionable galleries and cafes.We locate in front of the Bibaushi station. You can enjoy canoeing in Biei River, Flower Trecking at Furano Mountain, Mountain bike Downhill, and cross country skiing.No-Smoking in the building. 
You can enjoy panoramic view of Tokachi, Asahi, or Daisetsu Mountains from our observation room.After your exploring by ski or mountainbikes, home cooked meal with seasonal vegetables makes you full.Soundproofed room is available for greeting all night long. Guest room with bath and toilet is also available.Owner who loves photography teaches you the best spot to go. 
Our motto is " Vacation in a log-house". We are locating on the hill with the view of Ishikari River and Kita-Sorachi Plain surrounded by cherry and apple farms.Our meals are made with natural and organic vegetables. Uryunuma Marshland tour or Sunflower tour in summer, cross country skiing or snowmobile are enjoyable.Spend night at hot spring near by or common room with many manga by OsamuTezuka. 
Free Service: Rental bicycle, helmet deodorizer, car washing, snow shoes, walking ski, waxing room, Wi-Fi, Laptopmotorbike garage with roof and shutter is fully paved. Reasonable information in our website. 
We opened in June 1st, 2013. owner built a log cabin by himself in the forest of deers and squirrels.Stairs, beds, and tables are also made by the owner and you can smell the fir tree of Hokkaido.We locate near the JR Soya Line and look trains very closely. Cherry blossoms in spring, deep greens in summer, harvests in autumn and snow silver in winter is great view and sights of Ishikari Huette. 
Our YH is fashionable building locates where it look down the Okhotsk Sea.You can see fishery in summer, ice floe in winter, and sunrise from Shiretoko mountain range.Our meal basically contain crabs, however if you do not prefer crab, please let us know in advance.After the dinner, we treat you with tea and homemade sweats. Onsen tour is available everyday in season.The Famous Abashiri jail, Muse 
Our YH is locating in the foot of Lake Masyu. The main destinations are Lake Masyu, Lake Kussyaro, or Lake Akan. If you go little way further, Shiretoko and Kushiro Swamp is accessible. You can join our tour if you have spare time. You are able to enjoy canoe, cycling, or trekking in spring summer, or autumn. And skiing or snow shoe tour in winter. Enjoy and get experience nature through your body 
Akkeshi is traditional port town started from Kokutai Temple which established in Edo period. We recommend you to have a walk slowly with the view of coast. Oyster is the most famous in Akkeshi town. Gourmet park Conchiglie is crowded since its opening. Our voluminous meal uses fresh food from local areas. 
Our YH is small and family owned and like “your own home”. We do not offer any tours or events, however you can relax your busy journey. In the vast Tokachi plain, there are rivers, lakes, or swamps and hot spring are anywhere around. Also many famous gourmet shops in Ikeda, Tokachi. Enjoy all of Tokachi in the night of Kitanokotan YH. 
There is Mount Syari in front vast potato field around, and Okhotsk Sea behind. Our YH is located in such a utopia. Free flight of hot air balloon in winter is especially recommendable. Mount Syari trekking or Kaminoko Lake in summer. Cross country ski or snow mobile tour is offered in winter. Drop off service is available to public hot spring after the tours. Finnish sauna is also available in YH 
Our YGH is locating beside the Lake Kussyaro. Both group and single travelers enjoy our YGH as a base to travel and outdoors. We are waiting for your visit with modern building, former chef’s meal, pure hot spring, or many activities. We are also accessible to Lake Masyu, Shiretoko, Kushiro Swamp, or Lake Akan within 1 day. Stay, and enjoy many nights with us. 
Nukabira Gensen Kyo is a hot spring town in the Daisetsuzan National Park. You can enjoy canoe or fishing at the Nukabira Lake and also the climbing base to Mount Ninbetsu or Ishikari Dake. We are offering many kinds of tours so that you can enjoy the nature. Our central Hokkaido location is the best for stopovers.  
15 mins from gourmet town Tokachi, and Ikeda Wine Castle or Tokachi hot springs. There are 3 hot springs within 5 mins from YH. Akan, Daisetsu and Kushiro Swamps are accessible within 1 day. YH building is handmade log cabin where you can relax with an aroma of wood. Our meal is made with organic and natural ingredients. 
Log cabin stand in a big field nearby the white birch forest and surrounded by the Hiba trees. You can enjoy organic and fresh food such as melon, watermelon, and Yubari wine with beautiful music. Smoking allowed in dining hall only. 
The Yachiyo area has a view of big sky and large landscape spreading toward the mountain of Hidaka. It is the best location to enjoy river, mountain, ocean, and sky. Climbing, canoeing, and fishing in summer. And experience the best powder snow tour that we offer. The stars in Yachiyo is always the best throughout years.  3 hours from Tomakomai, Sapporo, or Chitose, 2 hours from Kushiro, Cape Erim 
Syakotan Peninsula is full of nature with strange rocks on coast, high transparency ocean. Especially, sunrise and sunset from Cape Camui is worth watching. Because Syakotan is the leading port town in Hokkaido, our meal is full of fresh sea food such as local food “Hamanabe”, or sea urchin bowl. 
Shimamaki has a lot of nature such as, beech forest, Garo waterfall, Mount Kariba and Obira. Especially the beech forest is the biggest beech virgin forest in Japan. We are offering wild strawberry picking, mushroom picking, fishing tours and ceramics workshop. Our YH is built in 1995 with handmade woody furniture and tableware. Our handmade meal is popular especially fresh fish caught by owner. 
Muroran is a horse shoe shaped and has 14km of precipitous cliff. Especially the Cape Earth on top of 120m high cliff. Muroran YH locates nearby those hilly area. 4km course to Cape Earth and dolphin/whale watching are recommended. Muroran YH is designed by Yoshiya Tanoue who is the father of Hokkaido architecture. 
Haboro city facing Japan sea has two famous islands; Yakishiri Island for Onko virgin forest, and Teuri Island for birds breeding grounds.Our YH is locating in the sports park, and have golf course  and parkgolf course.We are the base to the mountain where Ammonoidea sleep. We have long stay student discount. 
Good location in the city, in front of Gakuenmae station on the Toho line, 6 mins from Sapporo station by underground. Around our hostel, there are lots of schools. 5mins from Odori park, The clock tower of Sapporo and downtown Susukino by underground. You can also visit main sightseeing spots easily. Moreover, you can go to Toyohirakawa, which is across Hokaido, Toyohira park and Nakazima park by 
We locate in the in the field of Mount Yotei. You can explore Mount Yotei from us or enjoy activities such as cycling, snowshoe trekking, or play in the field and you might find something important. After you enjoy the nature, you can relax in the hot spring. You can stay with us watching the full of stars at night. 
We are located in the foot of Mount Shakotan where untouched nature still exists. We are friendly and recommended to who plans your own travel without a guidebook. We cook bread, desert, or smoked salmon by ourselves. Website below updates information in Shakotan. http://www.shakotan.net/  
We opened in 1965 where beautiful scenery of both ocean and mountain at the same time. You can meet with Japanese serow or northernmost monkeys in the Tohoku Shizen Hodo. Why not to take time and walk in the blue forest. Sightseeing ship to Futsugaura is available in summer to enjoy swimming. 
Tono is a home of folktales. We locate in such small country side and friendly hostel. Tono has many folktales are hide in a usual rural scenery and place to feel. Visit us to make your own tale with us. 
 
We are cozy hostel at the Kesennuma Bay, Karakuwa Penisula where you can enjoy fresh seafood. Sunrise from Karakuwa Peninsula is an astonishing event. Huge marble stone, Tsunami Center, or beautiful view from sightseeing cruise is also accessible from our YH. 
We locate in quiet and clean area and offer many activities through the yea. Our new restaurant has local and fresh food and local liquor. We have many sized conference room and parking space for 80 cars. Matsushima and Oosaki Hachiman Shrine are both accessible within 30 mins(we have a minibus for pickup seevice). 
Located south of Sendai, Funaoka is known for its cherry blossoms. It is a small home away from home where you can enjoy a variety of other flowers and relax with the majestic Zao in the distance in the background. 
Good location in the countryside, in the center of Yokote basin, within an hour by car of Kakunodate and Yokote. Various events all through the four seasons: Weeping cherry in Kakunodate in spring, Omagari Fireworks in summer, Kamakura festivals in winter. Many public hot springs within a 30 minute drive. You can arrange your own onsen tour. 
Located in the center of Yamagata basin, an hour dirve from our YH takes you to Mount Gassan, Mount Asahi, or Mount Zao. Various kinds of hot springs at reasonable prices around the YH. Higashine City, acclaimed as "the kingdom of fruit", has a bountiful variety of fruits all through the seasons. A hidden spot for noodle lovers is another reccomedation from us hostel workers. The local school has  
You can enjoy our YH throughout the year such as fruit hunting, skiing and hiking. You can use sports facilities nearby to have a training camps. Ski school is available for all levels. We also have observatory for guests to see the beautiful night sky. 
We are small YH for 15 people with all tatami rooms locating by the beautiful river. Scenery of mountain in spring and autumn is very recommendable. 
There are 4000 of sake brewery and a few offers tasting tours. And 100 of Kitakata Ramen shops many shops open from 7:30am where you can eat morning ramen. Aizuwakamatsu city has many sightseeing spots such as samurai residence or Tsuruga Castle. Bandai mountain offers us hiking or skiing in each season. 
We are small and reasonable YH with many kinds of air-conditioned rooms including wheelchair accessibility. We offer many activities especially ski tour is recommendable for child to experts. Free astronomical observation is also available in our observatory. We also offer discount for fruit hunting.  
We locate in the quiet forest and you can choose tatami or twin room. Pickup service to hot springs and train station is available. Enjoy your staying with our comfortable library, log cabin, or Yuba dinner in fully air-conditioned room. Owner kindly welcomes you and you may ask him a travel advice.  
We are locating 1100m altitudes tableland and the best area for summer and skiing. There are many hot springs including 18 free public hot springs. We have Paragliding School from late April to November. And ski schools are available in winter. 
We are locating in the forest of Kitakaruizawa with fire place in the lobby. Every rooms have toilet and bath. Beautiful view of Mount Asama and vast field of cabbage looks like Hokkaido. There are many sightseeing spot sucj as hot spring, volcano museum, or the toys kingdom. We offer skiing, hiking, or volcano experience almost every week.  
You can walk to Kujukuri Beach from our hostel and able to see beautiful sunrise of Pacific Ocean. You can enjoy many activities such as Tulip festival, beach, rafting festival, fishing, surfing, or hot springs. Home baked bread, spicy curry, fresh seafood is served for dinner. We are giving home baked bread as a gift for guest who stay more than 5 nights. 
We are locating in Chichibu-Tama-Kai National Park and surrounded by the great nature or Mount Ontake. The scenery of Kanto area from Ontake Shrine is beautiful especially at night or the sunrise. It takes 3 hours from Tokyo and not recommended to Tokyo sightseeing. Cable car operated 7:30 am to 6:30 pm. Not allowed to check in after the last cable car service. 
1000km away from Tokyo, and there are only 5 ships in a month which takes 25hours. The great nature still exists because only a few people visit. Many activities available such as scuba, swim with dolphin, whale watching, skin dive, cruising, trekking or observatories. You have a lot to do to miss a ship. Homemade noddle or special meal(sushi) at the day before you leave. 
Open on April 2014. In the central Tokyo, almost everywhere is accessible such as Shinjuku, Shibuya, Asakusa, Ueno, or Akihabara within 15?20 minutes. Our YH is locating at Iidabashi Station which has 5 routes and 1 minute from each exits. We have a good view of Mount Fuji, alps, or night of Tokyo from lobby or your room. 
OPEN 2021 after renewal with the new building !◆All rooms are private with shower and toilet.◆To reduce contact with other people, we provide some services as below.1. Microwave, fridge and electric kettle are equipped on each floor.2. Floor reservation negotiable for the big group.◆Many sightseeing spots are located within 5-10 minutes by walk.Akihab 
Located in the center of Fuji-Hakone-Izu National Park, great place to stay for traveling and recreation. Hakone and Mt. Fuji''s world-renowned landscapes will leave everyone in awe. Our onsen with milky white water will help to relieve travel fatigue as well as leaving a positive effect on your health and beauty. You can also enjoy visiting Hakone Shrine, Sekisyo, Cedar Avenue, museums, and Hakon 
You would see Mt Fuji from the main street with lots of telephone poles and telephone lines. It can be attractive. You can climb to the top of Mt Fuji from our YH. Some say it is a bit difficult to find our hostel. YH in the labyrinth. We and our dog called Bel welcome you at old-fashioned YH. Please relax in calm amibience.   
Isawa is center of the Kofu basin and surrounded by beautiful nature such as Mt. Fuji and other mountains. Isiwa is famous in connection with Samurai Shingen Takeda. You can enjoy hot springs here. We recommend you would go around Shousenkyo which has a famous waterfall and climb the mountains from YH. Please fully enjoy the nearest countryside from Tokyo. 
Our YH is along the national road, near from Kiyosato station, so it is accecible place to visit. You can also visit sightseeing spot such as museums and Koumi line which is the highest railroad in japan easilly. Kiyosato is famous for summer resort and you can enjoy ski and snowboard in winter.  You can also enjoy hiking in Utsukushi no Mori and Iimori mountain. 
We locate in Yatsugatake Heights. It is pleasantly cool here and you can get a full view of Yatsugatake, The south alps and Mt Fuji. You can also get in touch with horses, sheeps and ponies and enjoy horse riding. There is a museum about picture books and workshop where you can make dry flowers near us. There is a hot spring as well. It is good place to drive, walk around and enjoy seasonal flower 
We are located in Katsunuma BudN92:T92okyou Station. Just get off at the station and you will see everywhere interminable farms of grapes. Katsunuma is the first producer of grapes in Japan, with more than 30 wineries and more than 160 types of wine around town, Also,  there is a hot sping that is called "tenku no yu"where you can look at the landscape from a large window that is in the living roo 
We are running this hostel from Maji era, over 100 years ago. You can see the cherry blossoms in Taiho mountain, which is a protected plant. 30mins to the swimming beach, 20mins to the ski resort, 30mins to the Hyoko that is famous for the swans by car. 
Kiyotsu canyon is one of the three major canyon in Japan. YH is along Seto canyon which is the lower reaches of Kiyotsu canyon. You can have a good time with fishing, snow and sking in nature. The hot spring near us is popular for travelers. Please stay here and we hope you will ralax. 
Swimming and fishing in summer, meeting a blade of fresh grass in spring, delicious rice in autumn, seafood such as crab, oyster, shrimp in winter! You can do surfing even in Octorber and November. 
Our hostel is located to Senkaku Bay which is one of the most beatiful and cultual places in Japan. You can enjoy scuba diving in the clear sea and go fishing and staying at the beach which is ours. The sunset is pretty beautiful every evening and you might see the fire for luring fishes and noctiluca scintillans depends on seasons. It takes an hour from our hostel to other beach and the places wh 
You can feel the change of every season in your skin and see spectaculars view from our comfortable japanese style rooms. In Spring the wild grass , in Summer the fireflyers, in Fall the red leaves, in Winter the snow on the mountains, You must see the three principal majors.Kashiwazaki of Nagaoka, sea, rivers of Katakai mountain. 
We are location between Niigata and Toyama and there are many enjoyable spots such as ocean, mountains, hotsprings, or many historical area. 
Our hostel is the closest to the ocean in Japan and has PC, fishing rod, bicycles for rent. The owner is a fisherman and fishing through the year. You can enjoy our panoramatic view from windows and relax with our fresh fish meal.  
Our YH is locating in the forest of Shirakaba-Kogen of the Mount Tateshina. We have many activities and there are many sports facilities around us. We also offer many tours.  We are the first universal youth hostel in Japan and suitable for all kinds of travelers. You can spend cool summer or winter season with good snow. You will see deer, squirrels, or fox throughout the year. You can visit us b 
We are B&B style hostel in the quiet area of Lake Suwa. There is pure hot springs and many place to eat and convenience store of 24 hours. You can enjoy sunset with dinner. 
There are many activities and sightseeing spots around us. Kurobe Dam, Entrance of Alpen route, North Alps, water sports in the lake, snow sports, or fishing all year. We have hot spring in our facility.  
We are locating in the Norikura Onsen of Mount Norikura in the south of Chubu-Sangaku national Park. There are many destinations within 1 hour and suitable for many mountains. 
We are surrounded by the great nature of Komagatake and you can go to its summit by aerial tram. There are many local restaurants around YH. 
we are locating at the top of hill where you can see the north Alps and Azumino. There are small stream where wwasabi gorws and fashionable museums around. Azumino is where you can relax with the seasonal scenery.  
We are locating at the foot of Mount Asama and surrounded by forest and field. We are offering many kinds of tour every week or weekdays on your request.  
Our YH is surrounded by quiet forest. You can walk to public hot springs area within 10 minutes. 3 baths for 150 yen and 1 bath for 500 yen. War victim art students museum, “Mugonkan” is also nearby. 
Our YH is at 820m sea level and you can see 8 Alps Mountains that all of them are higher than 3000m. If you prefer pickup service, please let us know before your arrival (Tenryukyou Station or Karakasa Station). 
At the foot of Yatsugatake, our YH is the best place to enjoy climbing or trekking. There are many hot springs and walking courses around.  
You can enjoy many activities throughout years such as trekking, paragliding, shower climbing, ski, snowboarding, or snow shoe hiking in our YH. 
Looking down the North Shinsyu area, there is a great scenery of traditional Japan. We are suitable as a base for many kinds of activities such as Shinsyu trail, touring, or snow sports. We have a classic caf? where you can relax and enjoy our special selected coffee. Stay with us and relax in the infinite field. 
0.8 million of lily are brooming nearby hostel in early summer. There is also mountain, which you can see beautiful landscape on top of mountain. You also can enjoy skiing in winter. 
The city called little Kyoto has a long history and culture. Miyagawa-river flows at the center of the city and divids the city into east and west. Kawahigashi is a castle town and old houses area built in a row. There is town composed with temples on a hill and YH is located in the center of this town. It takes 10 minutes to a morning bazaar of the Miyagawa Riverside on foot  and there are some a 
We opened our Youth Hostel for more people to know Hida-Furukawa River which is a castle town with carp and beauty of nature in Hida. In winter, temperature is about minus 10 degree, but inside of our YH has underfloor heating for you to walk on bare foot. You can take the popular lesson of telemark ski. We have tools for rental, so please contact us and come to our website if you are interested.  
This Youth Hostel is located in the middle of Kiso street and Mino street and it takes 10 minutes to a pavement with stone of Nakasen- do Ochiai on foot. It is around 3 km to Magome, so it is good for those who like history and walking Nakasen Street. If you go further away, you can see Fujimidai, Tsukechi valley and a pasture and enjoy there even if you are solo. This YH is on the southern slope  
 
Omaezaki is a cape projecting out to sea. In summer, you can enjoy some activities, for example, beach with water of ''AAA'' credit rating in Japan, surfing and watching turtle laying eggs. From autumn to spring, we cann see sunset into the ocean and the red sky colored by sunrise. When you go up to the top of the lighthouse, you will see that the earth is round and in spring and autumn, there are 
At Inuyama, you can enjoy Inuyama castle (national tresure), The Museum Meiji mura, Little world, Monkey park and so on. At Kiso river nearby, you can also enjoy rafting and Ukai experience (cormorant fishing). YH is located at quiet place, and good place for Sports, Music playing. And YH welcome individual traveller, family, group and so on. 
From this hostel, you can visit the village of Spain in 5 minutes by car. It takes 25 minutes to Ise Shrine and Toba. 
We are using a building which is designated as tangible cultural properties. Also, we have local Omi Beaf in the menu. 
We are preparing best enviroment for staying. Our hostel is located nearby Osu station. You can visit Kyoto 30 minutes by train. 
You can enjoy Mountain Climbing, Hike and swimming in the summer, winter sports like a snow boarding in the winter. Please use our hostel as a base for traveling around the Biwa Lake.  
We are the YH which guests can enjoy international exchange with people from all over the world. Local event called "everyday one" is held at 8PM every night. 
Our hostel can be used as a base of traveling around Tango peninsula.  
Please enjoy our Chicken Sukiyaki and Botan Hot Pot. 
Our YH is located in Nosecho. Since we have a plenty of natural environment, it is a great place for hiking or summer camp. 
Located in Nagai Park in Osaka City, this is a rare youth hostel where the building is integrated with Yanmar Stadium Nagai, the venue of the World Cup. The location is convenient for transportation and easy access to tourist attractions in the Kansai region. Nearby are the teamLab Botanical Garden, an athletic facility, a natural history museum, rental conference rooms, and grounds, making it an ideal environment for various types of training camps. 
We are honored to be used as training or camp for club or company. Reservation is needed by al least ten days before check in. We have a party menu. 
We are the nearest YH from Kansai International Airport. Although 15 minutes from YH to Nanba town, our hostel is in quiet enviroment because we are located in the park. You can enjoy BBQ in our hostel. 
Our hostel is reflecting the character of Osaka which is friendly. Tea time is held every nights in the lounge, so our hostel is really good place for international exchange  
You can enjoy seafood. Moroyori town is famous for its volume of landings of sparkling enope squid and queen crab.  
We serve dinner only for group guests more than 10 people. Our hostel is in the athletic park, so you can enjoy various sports here. 
Enjoy seasonal hotpots and peaceful nights!! Our hostel is located in the valley which is surrounded by rich nature in Kongo-Ikoma-Kisen Semi National Park. Parent of this hostel is priest of Buddhist temple, so you can try sitting meditation and sutra transcribing in our hostel 
You can enjoy sea bathing, fishing, marine sports, and orange picking around the hostel. You can enjoy walking around Japanese traditional architecture. 
Our hostel locates on the hill of Mukouyama Park which is near from center of Kurashiki city. 15 minutes to Oohara museum, 30 minutes to Outlet mall by walk. Kurashiki YH is designed by famous designer called Shizutaro Urabe, so if you are interested in architecture, our hostel will be nice place for you. 
Our hostel just opend in October 2013, 1 minute from JR Saijo station. 8 sake celler stand in Sakagura St which is near from our hostel. Please enjoy chat in our lounge floored by Tatami, 
Hagi used to be the city of Mouri clan who take part in medieval period in Japan. Town of Hagi remains as it used to be, so you can enjoy lots old  architectures like samurai residences, Hagi castle, former residences of great people. 30 minutes form Oomi Island by train, you can use rental bike 500 Yen. 
There is the Lake Tokiwa nearby whose circumference is 12km. When you take a walk around this Youth Hostel located in the north, you can observe many wild birds all year round. In the park, you can visit the botanical garden of tropical plants and a memorial hall of caol and observe white pelicans closely. This YH is located in the middle of Yamaguchi, Shimonoseki and Akiyoshidai, so you can enjoy 
This YH is renewed and opend in Mar 2016. It is located on foot of Mt.Hinoyama park, and guest can enjoy the view of Shimonoseki Strait. Also BBQ site is equiped and in winter Fugu fish meal can be enjoyed at YH. Big enough parking and training rooms are availabe for group and indiviaul as well. 
This Youth Hostel is located in the south of Tokushima city and is near a beach and quiet. From 12th to 15th of August, you can go see the Awa Odori Festival. Also, you can go see whirling in the Naruto and have a experience of making papers dyed with indigo of Tokushima. There are a tennis court and athletics around here and you can enjoy kayaking and fishing in the sea. In the Awa Dancing Hall,  
This Youth Hostel is near the Prefectural Park and you can hear the music of the warblers and cuckooes here. Also, you can get a full view of Ikeda town and the Yoshino river from this YH. You can take a bus from Awa Ikeda Station for a tour of mysterious lands, for example, rafting boats on the Oboke river, a Heike mansion , Kazura Birdge and the Iya valley. From 14th to 16th of August, you can g 
You can enjoy the stay in the Shodo Island at a reasonable price here, this Youth Hostel. We have dormitory style rooms and japanese style rooms for families. We would like you to stay here to enjoy some sports, music and training.  
Our hostel is located on the hill. So you can look down the Setonai sea. There is a Letter written by Masamune Date who is famous warrior in the tresure house inside of Shin Hasedera, so this hostel is really nice for guests who is interested in Japanese history. In adittion, you can enjoy Tea celemony, Zazen, and seeing seasonal flowers in our Hostel. 
We have a wide variety of amusement for guest to enjoy here. We are eco-friendly and you can relax because water and ari are very clean here. You can easily visit the famous Dogo spa on foot in 6 minutes. Also, a memorial hall is 5 minutes-walk from this YH. This YH is a very convenient place for tour in Matsuyama and Shikoku and it is a good place to transmit from Kyusyu and Honshu. We have a les 
It is located 25 minutes from Matsuyama Staiton by train and 35 minutes from Shimanami sea route by car. A national park, Kajima and you can enjoy marine sports, fishing by the beach and camping there. Also, you can easily visit a spa which has a beautifl scenery of sun set over Setouchi ocean. We have Hokujo Spring festival during Golden Week, Seafood BBQ in summer and Hokujo Autumn festibval. Yo 
Kochi Youth Hostel is located 2 km sourth of Kochi Staion and you can easily visit Kochi castle, Sunday market and a busy street. In adittion, Katsurahama, Makino botanical park, and Ryugado are close to our hostel. In the summer, Yosakoi festival is held in Kochi city, and it amuse tourists. Since parents of the hostel used to work in sake cellar, so stracture of hostel is wood, and you can know  
Takeo hot springs  plays a central role in Northern Kyushu tourism. It will take about 20 minutes to go to Arita which is famous for Japanese traditional ceramic wares, 1 hour to Huis Ten Bosch. Our hostel have a hot spring which is called "Hot spring of beauty". 
We have a Kurokawa-Onsen which is most popular hot spring in Kyusyu, and you can climb Mt. Kujuu watching Miyamakirishima(Rhododendron kiusianum) or autumn foliage. Since our plateau is located at 930 meters above the sea, it is cool even in summer and great location for summer resort or summer camp. You can see the beautiful sunset and skyful stars, and you can experience a paraglider, making sob 
Takamori is a town of South part of Aso. There is public hot spring because many famous spring water and infiltrated water neaby. Why don''t you feel a soft breeze whlie taking a trolley car? This Youth Hostel is a good plave to lodge together. You can choose this place as a base of touring on a cycle since we has a bicycle parking area with a roof. 
There is the Suizenji Park of Momoyama Kaiyu-shiki-Garden imitating the 53 Stations of the T?kaid? as tourist spots in Kumamoto City. It is ten minutes to get to the Kumamoto Castle by bus. The castle is one of the three main castle in Japan and its stone wall is called "Musha- Gaeshi" which is signature curved stone walls.In Spring, we can enjoy beatiful scenery of cherry blossoms. Also, it is po 
Beppu is one of the greatest hot spring in terms of yeild of hot spring water and number of hot spring wells  in the world. This Youth Hostel is located in "Tetsu wa onsen" ,which is one of the hot spring districts that we call "Beppu Hachiyu". It''s available from bus terminals and ports and you can enjoy walking around famous hotsprings , which is called "Jigoku Meguri(the hell tour)"on foot. Th 
Yuhuin is near from Yuhudake(Hill) whose peak is 1,584m. Yuhuin is the third largest place which has a great amount of hot water. Also, it has many places to visit, for example, hot springs , art museums and caf?. Yuhuin Country Road Youth Hostel is located in the north of this city and its elevation is higher than any other places around here. You can enjoy the sky ful of lstars in the night. Hot 
This Youth Hostel is in the central part of Miyazaki city, and suitable for a relay point of travel. As this place is near the Miyazaki prefectural office and is 5 minutes walk away from urban area, the location is really convenient. Also, if you go to the mountain ridge called "Horikiri touge", you can enjoy seeing beautiful sea and unique shaped coast called "Demon''s washing rock". It takes abo 
The volcano which was first appointed as the national park in 1934 is famous for great landscape like beautiful nature, lakes, hotsprings, and vally. In this place, you can enjoy seasonal characteristics like fresh green in spring, cool and refreshing in summer, red leaves of autumn, and trees covered with ice in winter. Add to these, you can also enjoy sightseeing, leisure and sports activity aro 
There are many attractive sightseeing points near this area. For example you can experience natural sand steam bath, climb the mountain, see the biggest lake in Kyushu area, visit the southest cape in Kyushu and so on. This place is suitable for relaxing yourself mentally and physically. 
Located in the most southern part, Okuma peninsula is full of beautiful nature. The western area of the peninsula, which the hostel is situated in, has a seashore where the landscapes of Sakurajima and Kaimon Volcano, as well as magnificent view of sunset are within your sight. The fully diversitied scenery of nature that is given by the four seasons and different rivers and mountains will make yo 
A new hostel is built in Amami Great Island which is surrounded by bule ocean that nearly raches the sky. When it comes to singing and dancing, the mixture of different voices of different people creates great harmony. If one plays three strings, people enjoy joining it with different tones and many instruments. Experience a unique culture of dancing and singing that is slightly different from tha 
 
Location here is great. It will take just 10 minutes to the airport and the bus terminal is also in the proximity. As a base of travellers, we provide many activities like diving, canueing, and personal water craft. The hostel is actually located inside the Onoyama Park, so people can conveniently enjoy many sports activities. Pick-up buses are available for group guests. Recently we often welcome 
This hostel is located quite near from the port. Refurbishment has been done recently. Sogen Shrine and a monument to celebrate the visits of 19th-century US chief of East Asian Company Mathew Perry are in its proximity. Just a 10 minute walk will bring you to the Kokusai Street, the most polulous and prosperous area of Okinawa Prefecture. This hostel is conveniently located to have a day trip to  
Our guardian Shisa sat on red-tiled rooftops, old buildings and townscape still intact. Taketomi-jima preserves essential Okinawan traditions. You can spend at leisure in this conservation area. A lot of interactions among travelers will enrich your journey, too. Immerse yourself in beautiful Kondoi Beach and take a Water Buffalo Cart ride. There''s plenty to see on this small island. 
FLOWERS January to early February: Cherry blossom season. March: Deigo in bloom. OUTDOOR ACTIVITY April to October: Sorkeling, Canoe, Waterfall watching, Cycling, Stargazing. FIREFLY November to January: Oshima-madobotaru (Pyrocoelia). March to late April: Yaeyamabotaru. 