                    It looks like you're using an ad blocker.
To enjoy our content, please include The Japan Times on your ad-blocker's list of approved sites.
Thank you for supporting our journalism.
14 M/CLEAR BOJ maintains monetary easing at Kuroda's last policy board meeting Gov.
Haruhiko Kuroda is set to end his 10-year term and pass the torch to incoming chief Kazuo Ueda, whose appointment was approved by parliament Friday.7 hours ago Government to scale back COVID support with disease downgrade on May 8 The move means much of the state subsidies for screening and treatments will be scaled back and free COVID testing and outpatient care will end.6 hours ago North Korea's Kim says military carried out 'simulated drills for real war' Leader Kim Jong Un oversaw a military drill that fired off “a powerful volley” of at least six missiles simulating a strike on enemy airports, state-run media said.
Japan reports first death directly linked to COVID-19 vaccine The woman received a Pfizer shot targeting the omicron variant on Nov. 5 at a mass vaccination center.9 hours ago How the 3/11 disasters set in motion an evolution of the U.S.-Japan alliance The March 11, 2011, tragedy prompted a broad and important shift for the Self-Defense Forces and the country’s military alliance with the United States.
Twelve years after 3/11, dispute grows over Fukushima’s radioactive soil Yokozuna promotion appears within Takakeisho's grasp at Spring Basho The Oscars are upon us.
What films are you rooting for?
Elderly survivors fight to preserve memory of Tokyo firebombing in 'Paper City' Cardinals' Lars Nootbaar happy to expand his baseball family with Samurai Japan Continuing to live after losing six family members on March 11 The Chinese century is already over China’s gap between its declining demographic and economic strength and expanding strategic ambitions now constitutes a major geopolitical risk.
Pandemic murder wave has crested.
Here’s the postmortem.
Homicides were down in the U.S. in 2022 and continue to fall in the biggest cities.
The cause of the spike during COVID-19 is still being determined.
Preparing the SDF for tomorrow’s fight and today’s needs How does the SDF balance between posturing for the combat operations of tomorrow and the disaster relief missions of today?
Tokyo is very much invested in Taiwan's future Japan's strategic agenda with Taiwan will continue to entail more frequent engagement and fostering new avenues of cooperation.
After Ukraine, does Putin have his eyes on another country?
Moldova is leaning West.
That’s why the Kremlin is taking aim at the former Soviet republic.
DEEP DIVE Moving to Fukushima?
You’ll have to kick out the boars first Harima Science Garden City, model for research  Ten years on, reconstruction tax continues to stir debate Critics have increasingly pointed out misuse of the budget, resulting in growing demands across the political spectrum for stricter criteria for allocating funds.
From blush to crayons, cosmetics recycling on rise in Japan Twelve years after 3/11, dispute grows over Fukushima’s radioactive soil Victims remembered 78 years on from devastating U.S. air raid on Tokyo Diamond Princess returns to Yokohama, three years after mass COVID outbreak Police search Japanese inn that rarely changed hot-spring bathwater Sentence upheld for friend of Fukuoka mom who starved son to death Japan's consumption rebounds by most since March, despite inflation The latest data indicates there was a rebound in consumer confidence at the start of this year despite concerns about higher prices in fuel and daily necessities.
Mitsubishi Motors plays catchup with plans for all-electric fleet by 2035 Japan Airlines scraps promo discounted fares after demand crashes website Japan says no decision yet on chip export restrictions Artificial intelligence is booming — so is its carbon footprint Seven & I Holdings to cut over 20% of Ito-Yokado stores and exit apparel business Nomura cuts entertainment budget as rising costs hurt profit Russian missiles hit Ukrainian cities and cut power to nuclear plant Russian missiles knocked out the power supply to Europe's largest nuclear plant during a barrage of strikes targeting cities across Ukraine.
Pacific's Micronesia in talks to switch ties from Beijing to Taiwan Only one Chinese official got a ‘no’ vote at Xi’s coronation Former Malaysian PM Muhyiddin Yassin charged with corruption Xi starts new term in China, with a focus on economy and U.S. rivalry Biden's $6.8 trillion budget challenges Republicans and raises taxes on rich Russia shifts tactics with deadly missile strikes on Ukraine Japan must do more to build stronger ties with South Korea Seoul has decided that the future is more important than the past — and offered Japan a settlement on its wartime labor dispute.
Japan tourism woes an opportunity for needed change While the tourism industry modernizes, it’s vital that Japan not lose the special touch that has made this country a unique destination.
The Chinese century is already over China’s gap between its declining demographic and economic strength and expanding strategic ambitions now constitutes a major geopolitical risk.
Pandemic murder wave has crested.
Here’s the postmortem.
Homicides were down in the U.S. in 2022 and continue to fall in the biggest cities.
The cause of the spike during COVID-19 is still being determined.
Masataka Yoshida leads charge as Samurai Japan routs South Korea in World Baseball Classic Japan routed its rival to improve to 2-0 in the WBC.
Australia looks to keeping momentum going after upsetting South Korea Shohei Ohtani captivates crowd, teammates and opponents in WBC debut Yokozuna promotion appears within Takakeisho's grasp at Spring Basho Andy Murray and Emma Raducanu battle to victory at Indian Wells Jean Faut, star pitcher in women’s baseball league, dies at 98 Chad Ramey makes good first impression grabbing Players Championship lead Elderly survivors fight to preserve memory of Tokyo firebombing in 'Paper City' In his documentary, Australian filmmaker Adrian Francis explores the collective amnesia surrounding the wartime firebombings of Japan's capital.
Japan’s first 'Drag Race' contestant hits the stage ‘Downfall’: Tortured soul makes for a total bore ‘December’: Powerful courtroom drama serves up shades of gray ‘A Kamigata Anthology’: Everyday enjoyments of everyday people Things come full circle — like a bagel — for 'Everything Everywhere' designer Shirley Kurata The woman behind many of the looks that film villain Jobu Tupaki wears had to get creative with a smaller budget than her fellow Oscar nominees.
The Oscars are upon us.
What films are you rooting for?
Living doll: Licca-chan casts a spell on Japan's adults Japan's first AI manga has people asking: Is it machine magic or art menace?
Can urban farming play a key role in food security?
Round 2 at your teaching job: New confidence, new opportunities We're coming up on a new school year.
Aim to improve your language skills and travel the country more with your newfound confidence.
With the arrival of spring, Komeko is ready to bloom 'Dear, the war has started': My journey from Ukraine to Japan Not so easy to fall in love: The app effect on Japan’s international dating scene Through good times and bad, the community you create will be your lifeline View more Multimedia articles Sponsored contents planned and edited by JT Media Enterprise Division.
広告出稿に関するおといあわせはこちらまで Read more By Synergy Media Specialists THE JAPAN TIMES DIGITAL ARCHIVES RELATED SITES DISASTER INFORMATION Japan Spelling Bee The Japan Times Jobs Sustainable Japan by The Japan Times JT GROUP SITES The Japan Times Alpha Book Club Read more Read more The Japan Times LTD. All rights reserved.
